=Introduction=

Our primary concern is with the parameters of an endpoint (portal has magic) and their purpose.

==Mode==

Mode designates what function the packet is designated. Notify is default?

  * Publish - basic entry push
  * Unpublish - remove entry
  * Republish - update entry
  * Notify - non-saved entry, process and discard

Mode may be better left unstated or included as part of the data. Mode may not be a viable parameter because we can implicitly determine the type of update so long as we are within the 4 listed modes.

  * Entry contains guid but does not exist in local system.
    * Publish mode.
    * Check for subscribers (or Borneo) and process.
  * Entry contains guid which exists in system under acct.
    * Footprint has changed (republish)
    * How do we determine unpublish?
    * Unpublish will be designated by activity:verb delete
  * Entry does not contain guid.
    * Notify mode.

ActivityStreams conventions (verbs)

  * post: publish an entry
  * update: republish an entry
  * delete: unpublish an entry

Other verbs of potential use include follow, share, like, and favorite.

We will check the activity verb at the portal endpoint, and route accordingly; mode is not required. Should we save the activity data in json? Aside from the three primary verbs, all other entries are notifications and not permanent.

==Party==
 
The sender, or owner of the content? Acct might work better? So we parse acct from the beginning, or check what the packet is going to do?
 
  * Parsing the acct, we can check the magic signatures and/or acquire the right domain info.
    * acct processing of portal should occur within the API core authorization.
    * What about portal publishing for local account.
  * Checking the packet might allows us to avoid verifying the signature.
    * We can disregard certain notices; repeats or non-listening (what about Borneo/aggregation)
    * We could use a simple footprint for checking redundancy of 'data' (good).
  * How do we determine packet "types"
    * inclusive/exclusive/default
    * ActivityStreams
    * ActionStatus
    * Portal mode - preferably not because eating entries is similar for listed modes.

==Data==
{{{
{
  "id",
  "guid",
  "text",
  "title",
  "html",
  "author",
  ...
}
}}}

=Suggestions=

  * Remove mode for now (rely on activity streams)
  * Party should become 'acct'